Hi, I'm Hannah, and I'm here to talk to you about expectations on your data. Because as
data scientists, we are often not the ones collecting it, we're just given access to
it, and then we build something with it. Maybe a dashboard, maybe a prediction model. And
sometimes, sometimes things change. And if a column gets renamed, things wreck. And if
a variable gets recorded in a different unit, things might now be silently garbage. Wouldn't
it be nicer to just get a heads up, an email that says these things are changing, rather
than the dashboard is broken. You may want to get that email from a colleague, but if
that's not possible, you can also run regular validation checks and have a system email
you. And that's what pointblank is for. It's feature rich, it's got loads of documentation,
and my goal here is just to give you a sense of what's possible and how to get started.
The main thing you get from pointblank is a beautiful HTML table like this. You can
stick it in a report, or you can have it emailed to you. And roughly one row is one validation
role. The specifications are to the left, and the results are to the right. So, if you're
validating the contents of a particular column, that's the rows, those are the units. It will
tell you how many and how many passed and how many failed. And life is messy, and your
data might be too. But in both cases, you can typically tolerate some amount of that.
So pointblank lets you specify thresholds for when you want to warn, stop, or be notified.
And if you specify that, at minimum, it drives the colors to the left of that table. But
really, it can do a lot more, because it can trigger any action that you can express in
R code. And lastly, that column to the right is for when things go wrong. You can get access
to a CSV with the units or rows that failed that condition. And the core code pattern
of the package is something you might have seen elsewhere, for example, in header recipes.
It is simply create the core object, add specifications to it, and then apply those specifications
to the data. That data can be local in your session, or remote in a database. And there's
a lot of pre-made validation functions for you. So you can stick together your validation
plan as it is necessary for your data set. But I promised you some action based on these
thresholds. So how to specify them? Well, there's an action argument. It takes the result
of an action levels function, which lets you specify these three thresholds. It can be
an absolute threshold, a relative threshold, and the set of functions you want executed
at a particular threshold. So here, we just warn when we hit the warning threshold. Not
particularly exciting, but you get the idea. You can specify that in sort of the overall
object and then it applies to all of the validation rules you might add. Or if you want to fine
tune out and have a different threshold for a particularly important validation rule,
you can specify there, too. It takes the same actions argument. And you can have an action
or just sort of arbitrary R code carried out at the end of the validation in the ends functions
argument. You could, for example, add your email notification there. And because if it
emails you every single time a validation runs and everything's okay, that might be
a little spammy. The default is to only send that email when you hit the notify threshold.
But that's just a feature of that email function, not that that applies to all of the code you
would execute in this little block. So sometimes the table is beautiful, but not enough, and you
want to be able to program against it. So HonkBlack lets you do that, too, with a set of functions
that let you access the results of the validation. And the place to find more info is this. Thank you.